---
layout: page
title: Privacy Policy for DrinkBird
permalink: /privacy-policy/
---

If you require any more information or have any questions about our privacy policy, please feel free to contact us by email at [tasos [at] drinkbird.com](&#109;&#97;&#105;&#108;&#116;&#111;:&#116;&#97;&#115;&#111;&#115;&#64;&#100;&#114;&#105;&#110;&#107;&#98;&#105;&#114;&#100;&#46;&#99;&#111;&#109;).

At drinkbird.com we consider the privacy of our visitors to be extremely important. This privacy policy document describes in detail the types of personal information is collected and recorded by drinkbird.com and how we use it.

# Log Files

Like many other Web sites, drinkbird.com makes use of log files. These files merely logs visitors to the site - usually a standard procedure for hosting companies and a part of hosting services's analytics. The information inside the log files includes internet protocol (IP) addresses, browser type, Internet Service Provider (ISP), date/time stamp, referring/exit pages, and possibly the number of clicks. This information is used to analyze trends, administer the site, track user's movement around the site, and gather demographic information. IP addresses, and other such information are not linked to any information that is personally identifiable.

# Cookies and Web Beacons

drinkbird.com uses cookies to store information about visitors' preferences, to record user-specific information on which pages the site visitor accesses or visits, and to personalize or customize our web page content based upon visitors' browser type or other information that the visitor sends via their browser.

# Our Advertising Partners
 
Some of our advertising partners may use cookies and web beacons on our site. Our advertising partners include:

- Amazon: *The owner of this website, Anastasios Piotopoulos, is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon properties including, but not limited to, amazon.com, amazon.co.uk, amazon.ca, amazon.fr, amazon.de, amazon.it and amazon.es.*

These third party ad servers or ad networks use technology in their respective advertisements and links that appear on drinkbird.com and which are sent directly to your browser. They automatically receive your IP address when this occurs. Other technologies (such as cookies, JavaScript, or Web Beacons) may also be used by our site's third-party ad networks to measure the effectiveness of their advertising campaigns and/or to personalize the advertising content that you see on the site.

drinkbird.com has no access to or control over these cookies that are used by third-party advertisers.

# Third Party Privacy Policies

You should consult the respective privacy policies of these third-party ad servers for more detailed information on their practices as well as for instructions about how to opt-out of certain practices. drinkbird.com's privacy policy does not apply to, and we cannot control the activities of, such other advertisers or web sites.

You may find a comprehensive listing of these privacy policies and their links here: [Privacy Policy Links](http://www.privacypolicyonline.com/privacy-policy-links).

If you wish to disable cookies, you may do so through your individual browser options. More detailed information about cookie management with specific web browsers can be found at the browsers' respective websites. [What Are Cookies?](http://www.privacypolicyonline.com/what-are-cookies)

# Other Third Party Services

- Google Analytics: *This website uses Google Analytics, a web analytics service provided by Google, Inc. ("Google"). Google Analytics uses "cookies", which are text files placed on your computer to help the website analyse how visitors use the site. The information generated by the cookie about your use of the website (including your IP address) will be transmitted to and stored by Google on servers in the United States. Google will use this information for the purpose of evaluating your use of the website, compiling reports on website activity for website operators and providing other services relating to website activity and internet usage. Google may also transfer this information to third parties where required to do so by law, or where such third parties process the information on Google's behalf. Google will not associate your IP address with any other data held by Google. You may refuse the use of cookies by selecting the appropriate settings on your browser, however please note that if you do this you may not be able to use the full functionality of this website. By using this website, you consent to the processing of data about you by Google in the manner and for the purposes set out above.*
- Disqus: [Disqus Privacy Policy](https://help.disqus.com/customer/en/portal/articles/466259-privacy-policy)

# Children's Information

We believe it is important to provide added protection for children online. We encourage parents and guardians to spend time online with their children to observe, participate in and/or monitor and guide their online activity.

drinkbird.com does not knowingly collect any personally identifiable information from children under the age of 13. If a parent or guardian believes that drinkbird.com has in its database the personally-identifiable information of a child under the age of 13, please contact us immediately (using the contact in the first paragraph) and we will use our best efforts to promptly remove such information from our records.

# Online Privacy Policy Only

This privacy policy applies only to our online activities and is valid for visitors to our website and regarding information shared and/or collected there.
This policy does not apply to any information collected offline or via channels other than this website.

# Consent

By using our website, you hereby consent to our privacy policy and agree to its terms.

# Update

This Privacy Policy was last updated on: Friday, August 6th, 2016.

*Should we update, amend or make any changes to our privacy policy, those changes will be posted here.*
