---
layout: page
title: Recommended books for software developers
excerpt: These are the books that have changed my life.
permalink: /books/
page-key: books
image:
  feature: books.png
  credit: Freepik
  creditlink: http://www.freepik.com/free-vector/book-collection-in-flat-design_764791.htm
---

## A few thoughts on books

Some people argue that since technology advances so rapidly, technical books become obsolete the moment they hit the shelves. Such argument simply doesn't stand, as long as books are chosen wisely.

There are two distinct categories of knowledge: *information* and *fundamentals*. The former includes specific knowledge that helps people deal with certain problems and usually have a short lifespan, such as *how to program in C# 5 using Entity Framework 6*, whereas the latter includes broadly applicable knowledge which isn't constrained to a specific implementation and can last a lifetime, such as *soft skills for software developers*.

Having a solid skillset based on fundamentals can help professionals learn new technologies on demand, rapidly adapt to new requirements and ultimately live a more fulfilled life. Skills based on information have to be built on top of that.

![The hierarchy of knowledge]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/hierarchy_of_knowledge.png)

### A word of caution

Some books that target fundamental knowledge utilize specific programming languages to illustrate their examples. The readers shouldn't get discouraged or intimidated if they haven't worked with that language before, or if they don't intend to use it in the future. As mentioned above, fundamental knowledge is widely applicable, and that fact extends to other programming languages as well.

## My book collection

Here is a hand-picked collection of the books that have greatly helped me improve my life, both in a professional and a personal level. I've read most of them more than once. Every single time I get to learn something new by seeing those books in a different light, mostly due to the additional experiences I have acquired between reads. I strongly believe that these books are totally worth your time.

<a class="cover" target="_blank" href="http://geni.us/softskills"><img class="img-responsive" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/covers/1617292397.jpg" alt="Soft Skills: The software developer's life manual" /></a>

## Soft Skills: The software developer's life manual

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit, sed do eiusmod
tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam,
quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo
consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse
cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non
proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum.

<a class="cover" target="_blank" href="http://geni.us/pragmaticprogrammer"><img class="img-responsive" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/covers/020161622X.jpg" alt="The Pragmatic Programmer" /></a>

## The Pragmatic Programmer

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit, sed do eiusmod
tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam,
quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo
consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse
cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non
proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum.

<a class="cover" target="_blank" href="http://geni.us/cleancode"><img class="img-responsive" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/covers/0132350882.jpg" alt="Clean Code: A Handbook of Agile Software Craftsmanship" /></a>

## Clean Code: A Handbook of Agile Software Craftsmanship

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit, sed do eiusmod
tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam,
quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo
consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse
cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non
proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum.

<a class="cover" target="_blank" href="http://geni.us/agileppp"><img class="img-responsive" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/covers/0131857258.jpg" alt="Agile Principles, Patterns, and Practices in C# (Robert C. Martin)" /></a>

## Agile Principles, Patterns, and Practices in C# (Robert C. Martin)

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit, sed do eiusmod
tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam,
quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo
consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse
cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non
proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum.

<a class="cover" target="_blank" href="http://geni.us/refactoring"><img class="img-responsive" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/covers/0201485672.jpg" alt="Refactoring: Improving the Design of Existing Code (Object Technology Series)" /></a>

## Refactoring: Improving the Design of Existing Code (Object Technology Series)

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit, sed do eiusmod
tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam,
quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo
consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse
cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non
proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum.

<a class="cover" target="_blank" href="http://geni.us/hfdesignpatterns"><img class="img-responsive" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/covers/0596007124.jpg" alt="Head First Design Patterns" /></a>

## Head First Design Patterns

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit, sed do eiusmod
tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam,
quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo
consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse
cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non
proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum.

<a class="cover" target="_blank" href="http://geni.us/dpruby"><img class="img-responsive" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/covers/0321490452.jpg" alt="Design Patterns in Ruby" /></a>

## Design Patterns in Ruby

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit, sed do eiusmod
tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam,
quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo
consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse
cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non
proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum.

<a class="cover" target="_blank" href="http://geni.us/97things"><img class="img-responsive" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/covers/0596809484.jpg" alt="97 Things Every Programmer Should Know" /></a>

## 97 Things Every Programmer Should Know

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit, sed do eiusmod
tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam,
quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo
consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse
cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non
proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum.

<a class="cover" target="_blank" href="http://geni.us/csharpindepth"><img class="img-responsive" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/covers/161729134X.jpg" alt="C# in Depth" /></a>

## C# in Depth

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit, sed do eiusmod
tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam,
quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo
consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse
cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non
proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum.

<a class="cover" target="_blank" href="http://geni.us/aspnetmvc5"><img class="img-responsive" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/covers/1430265299.jpg" alt="Pro ASP.Net MVC 5 (Expert's Voice in ASP.Net)" /></a>

## Pro ASP.Net MVC 5 (Expert's Voice in ASP.Net)

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit, sed do eiusmod
tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam,
quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo
consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse
cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non
proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum.

<a class="cover" target="_blank" href="http://geni.us/jsgoodparts"><img class="img-responsive" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/covers/0596517742.jpg" alt="JavaScript: The Good Parts" /></a>

## JavaScript: The Good Parts

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit, sed do eiusmod
tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam,
quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo
consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse
cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non
proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum.

<a class="cover" target="_blank" href="http://geni.us/leanstartup"><img class="img-responsive" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/covers/0307887898.jpg" alt="The Lean Startup" /></a>

## The Lean Startup

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit, sed do eiusmod
tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam,
quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo
consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse
cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non
proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum.

<a class="cover" target="_blank" href="http://geni.us/steallikeanartist"><img class="img-responsive" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/covers/0761169253.jpg" alt="Steal Like An Artist" /></a>

## Steal Like An Artist

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit, sed do eiusmod
tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam,
quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo
consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse
cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non
proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum.

<a class="cover" target="_blank" href="http://geni.us/interactiondesign"><img class="img-responsive" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/covers/1119020751.jpg" alt="Interaction Design" /></a>

## Interaction Design

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit, sed do eiusmod
tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam,
quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo
consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse
cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non
proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum.
