---
layout: post
title: "Down the rabbit hole of choosing a programming language"
excerpt: "Making the «right» choice is not as important as you think"
permalink: /choosing-programming-language/
comments: true
categories: blog
featured: true
image:
  feature: rabbit.jpg
# pixabay 542554
reads:
  - careerguide
  - cleanarchitecture
  - buildingmicroservices
  - dataintensive
  - cleancode
  - 97things
  - softskills
  - thecleancoder
---

*Which programming language should I learn first?* This is perhaps the most popular question of all time in software development.

It's only natural that you'd want to make the best choice possible for your career, and avoid early mistakes that can potentially have a significant negative impact down the line.

Maybe you'd prefer to leave all options open and not *pigeonhole* yourself into a single decision, thinking that you'd otherwise be excluding yourself from plenty of work opportunities.





Sometimes this choice is never made, so people focus on becoming proficient in a number of different languages.
Some other times people invest long term on a language, only to switch to another one later




As you're reading this, you might be thinking that it's way more preferable to learn the basics for many different languages, and 


You may not see it yet, but becoming a specialist has immense value over becoming a generalist.


## Becoming a specialist


Why some people on the internet think of that language as a bad choice? What if the language of choice is not - or does not become - popular enough? What if it's not much fun to work with compared to other languages?



Although each language has its pros and cons




The grass is always greener elsewhere. Or is it?

car park
chasing two rabbits

If you chase two rabbits at the same time, both will get away

